# River Writer VR

### Short Description
River Writer is a proof of concept for a virtual-reality based interactive poetry-writing application utilizing a recurrent neural network to generate a literal stream (of-consciousness). This application, created in Unreal Engine, enables users to fish 3D text to syntactically compose couplets from found text in a custom-generated landscape. 

### Long Description
River Writer is a proof of concept for virtual-reality based interactive poetry-writing application. Set on a virtual levee at the golden hour, users fish 3dD text (words) out of a literal stream (of consciousness)--words put into an array that flow from spawning volumes into an end volume that circles them to another random point in the spawn volume, creating two layers of randomization. The user then has the ability to carry and drop these word selections on an environment that essentially acts as a couplet palette in the three cardinal directions opposing the river of words. Over the course of “creative play,” a user has space to create at least 3 couplets or 6 lines of poetry, intentionally placing the randomized, fished diction on the level. The diction utilized for this proof of concept was taken from the born digital text “Diamonds in Dystopia” (Cellucci), but other texts can be substituted in future iterations. This application and level was created by Vincent Cellucci with assistance from Marc Aubanel using Unreal Game Engine 4. The machine learning and RNN component was added by Derick Ostrenko. The words were modeled easily, albeit individually, in Rhinoceros 6 using the text function. This project also has applications in the larger context of learning technologies and museum studies and pursues the following research questions: 1) Does the uncurated, selection VR offers away from linear presentation of art and authority have advantages for new experiences with language? What are they and how can they be harnessed to guide the design of my exhibition? 2) How could the changes these technologies affect in the presentation of fine arts be considered and applied to guide the creation of the traditional media, art objects contained within? 3) How can these technologies be used as teaching tools within creative disciplines?

### Video of Gameplay
https://youtu.be/C9jkidnBwBA
